The Last Lecture Paper

This lecture was not about how to reach your dreams, but how to live in a way that your dreams will come to you. That is deeply, deeply meaningful to me and resonated with my own life. I am a transfer student who is taking my second chance at college after having lived many lives away from it. Randy’s tenacity and experience really resonated with me. The joy he found in creating and his humility at his achievements were really human and inspiring to listen to.

Like him, I’ve lately realized that I’ve achieved a lot of my childhood dreams in one way or another. And it all has come from not being afraid to adapt and follow my heart. In my life, I’ve had many many struggles to overcome. For me, my biggest and deepest disappointments and pain come from my first experience at college. I was so set on achieving my dream of being a medical illustrator that when my life was derailed by my attacker, I had no idea how to move forward. I had such a set path forwards that when it became impossible to follow, I was completely lost. What do you do when you have to leave the labs you had dreamed of since childhood? Do you just give up? How can your heart handle so much pain?

As I shambled through life full of so much sorrow and pain thought I had to let my ambition college dreams die, buried with the 18 year old girl that Iowa Statewide University silenced and suffocated until she was completely swallowed by her grief. But somewhere in that corpse were dreams my disabled body gave up long ago. Our lives are so short and painful. I tried as hard as I could to keep waking up. Because I never gave up, I was able to heal enough to decide to try something, anything else. I received new treatments for my disability and gained something I never thought I could- the ability to work a physical labor job.

Although reaching for your childhood dreams is something many of us go to college for, I’ve found myself living the life I’ve dreamed by following opportunity, adapting, and healing. Randy Pausch’s life was not straight to Nasa, he did not get every opportunity he ever wanted. But by following his passions where they flourished, being ready to seize opportunity and staying dedicated to his work, he was able to achieve his childhood dreams in his own ways. He is a good speaker, and told a beautiful story of the life he has built. His speech truly was worthy of being his last lecture. 

There’s something about the charisma and infectious determination of imagineers. When struggling to find footing after having to give up my future in Pre-Medical Illustration school, I found so much healing in the words and life of Frank Armitage. He showed me that even though you may face hardship that is out of your control, you can persevere and succeed. Dr. Pausch’s speech has given me that same reassuring fire, that there may still be time and paths to reach the dreams I thought were forever taken from me.

I may not have become a medical illustrator, but I became a wild land firefighter who knows how to saw through trees. I can radio in a helicopter and have flown in many. I have backpacked a buddhist pilgrimage to achieve enlightenment. I learned how to make my own beer, and share it with people I love. I didn’t let myself get trapped in a shitty relationship.
There are still so many things I want to become and do, and its become ever more apparent just how short life is. But I have adapted, overcome, and learned how to be persistent in this practice. My dreams are coming to me the more I persevere and learn to ask for help, and I hope to continue living this way. Thank you Dr. Pausch, for reminding me to keep living a life worth dreaming about.
